In Java there is a process of compliation and Interpretation.

The code written in java is converted to Byte Code using JIT compiler.The Byte Code then converted to Machine Language using JVM.
The machine code is executed direclty by the machine.
In Java architecutre there are 3 components JVM,JRE and JDK.

Java applications are called WORA becuase of thier ability to run a code on any platform.This is done only because of JVM. 

JVM: JVM is a java platfrom componnent that provides an environment for executing java programs.JVM interprets the byte code into machine
code which is executed in which java programs runs.

JVM perfroms the following functions

Load the code
Verify the code
Execute the code
Provide runtime environment.

Class Loader: Class loader is a subsystem of JVM. It is used to load class files.Whenever we run the java program, class loader loads 
it first.
Loading
Linking
Initialization

Class method area: It is one of the Data Area in JVM, in which Class data will be stored. Static Variables, Static Blocks, Static Methods,
Instance Methods are stored in this area.

Heap: A heap is created when the JVM starts up. It may increase or decrease in size while the application runs.Information of all objects is stored in heap area

Stack: JVM stack is known as a thread stack. It is a data area in the JVM memory which is created for a single execution thread.
The JVM stack of a thread is used by the thread to store various elements i.e.; local variables, partial results, and data for 
calling method and returns.

PC Registers: This keeps the track of which instruction has been executed and which one is going to be executed. Since instructions are executed by threads, each thread has a separate PC register.

Native Method stack: A native method can access the runtime data areas of the virtual machine.

Native Method interface: It enables java code to call or be called by native applications. Native applications are programs that are specific to the hardware and OS of a system.

Garbage collection: A class instance is explicitly created by the java code and after use it is automatically destroyed by garbage collection for memory management.

JVM Vs JRE Vs JDK
JRE: JRE is the environment within which the java virtual machine runs. JRE contains Java virtual Machine(JVM), class libraries, and other files excluding development tools such as compiler and debugger.
Which means you can run the code in JRE but you can’t develop and compile the code in JRE.
JVM: As we discussed above, JVM runs the program by using class, libraries and files provided by JRE.
JDK: JDK is a superset of JRE, it contains everything that JRE has along with development tools such as compiler, debugger etc.

